- [bugs chittering]
- [birds chirping]
[young girl] Once upon a time…
- [girl] Laura!
- [Laura grunts]
[groans in frustration]
Do you want dinner or not?
[lively music playing]
[Laura] Once upon a time.
Pa and Ma
and Mary and Laura
left their house
in the Big Woods of Wisconsin.
Ma was sad to leave our life behind.
but Pa said it was getting too crowded.
and we needed a fresh start in the West.
Every day. the horses traveled
as far as they could.
and Pa and Ma made camp in a new place.
Finally. they came to the prairie.
where there was nothing but grass
and waves of light and shadow
and a giant sky.
Every day and every night
was an adventure.
[Mary] Let's go!
[Laura] And they were happy
because they were a family
and they were together.
[fiddle music playing]
♪ O whistle
And I'll come to you. my lad ♪
♪ Tho' Father and Mother
And a' should gae mad ♪
♪ O whistle
And I'll come to you. my lad ♪
[fiddle music fades]
[hopeful music playing]
Almost there. Half Pint.
♪ The Ingalls are coming
Hurrah. hurrah ♪
♪ The Ingalls are coming to Kansas now ♪
♪ The Ingalls are coming
Hurrah. hurrah ♪
Hurrah ♪
[father] See?
Lots of wagons have crossed here.
- Why would someone leave it here?
- Oh. too heavy. probably.
[Laura] Can Jack ride inside?
Just this once.
[heartwarming music playing]
[snorting]
[horses whinny loudly]
[creaking]
[gasps]
[horses neighing]
- Take the reins.
- Pa!
Charles!
[dramatic music playing]
[Charles gasping]
[dog barking]
[horses whinny frantically]
[continues barking]
[Charles grunting]
[grunts]
Don't let go!
No! Jack!
- [Mary] Jack!
- Jack!
- [mother] Stay back.
- [Laura] Jack!
- Laura. stay back!
- Jack!
Jack!
[Jack whining]
[creaking]
[girls scream]
[panting]
[Laura] We have to move!
[both grunting]
[horse neighing frantically]
- [Mary] Ma!
- [grunting]
[mother] Girls. hold on!
Move!
[neighing]
[grunting. yelling]
- [grunts]
- [loud creaking]
[music fades]
[panting]
Girls.
[Mary exclaims]
[tense music playing]
[Mary and Laura breathing heavily]
[panting]
[tender music playing]
[horses neighing]
[Charles groans]
[mother panting]
[Charles panting]
- [Mary] Jack! Jack!
- Are you all right? Are you hurt?
- You okay? You all right?
- [Mary and Laura] Jack! Jack!
- [Mary] Jack!
- Jack!
[retches]
[Laura] Jack!
[vomits]
[groaning]
[panting]
[man] I saw your wagon
get caught in the chutes.
Whoa.
Everyone all right?
I'm Dr. George Tann. May I take a look?
[music fades]
[Dr. Tann] This may sting a little.
[winces]
- [winces]
- It seemed like a good crossing.
Spring rains make for fast waters.
It's an easy mistake.
You got a way with horses.
You kept calm. got everybody to shore.
Very fine work.
- Keep 'em dry as best you can.
- Thank you.
[Dr. Tann] Take it
you're headed to Independence.
Not far now. just about a half a day.
Once you get into town.
see yourself to Henderson General Store
for the best prices.
- Where can I find the land office?
- No. No land office. Not yet.
You could probably find
Eli James at the Judson Hotel.
He'll set you in the right direction
to stake a claim.
[exhales]
You know.
most people come out west
with more hands. friends. family.
Not all alone.
It didn't work out.
Hope you find what you're looking for.
[melancholy music playing]
What about the food?
It's not all gone. but close to it.
Forgive me.
We'll make a feast of the last of it.
Jack! Jack!
Jack!
[curious music playing]
[woman in Osage] Come on.
Stop spying.
[horses nickering]
[in English] Laura.
Ma says come to dinner.
[music fades]
You missed breakfast.
We need to be on our way.
- We have to wait for Jack.
- [Charles] Jack's a good swimmer.
He's probably just exploring the river
a little before he catches up with us.
How will he find us?
Easy. He'll follow your smell.
[uplifting music playing]
What are you doing?
Leaving a trail for Jack.
Cornbread is his favorite.
[bleating]
- [Charles grunts]
- [exhales sharply]
It's so small.
What we wanted. right?
- Be the beginning of something.
- Come and find us when you're finished.
- Don't forget the peppermint sticks.
- I won't.
Come on.
[music continues]
[hammering]
[pig squealing]
[people chattering]
[bell ringing]
Hello. I'm Emily Henderson.
I don't think we've had the pleasure.
Caroline Ingalls. Oh. I have a list.
And also.
I'd like to mail these letters home.
Oh. I'm sorry.
There's no post office here yet.
There's no post office.
no church. no school.
[mouths]
We do have a very fine doctor. [chuckles]
Just the list. then. Thank you.
[piano music playing in the distance]
[piano music playing]
[people chattering]
Excuse me. I'm looking for Eli James.
What do we have here?
Fresh face.
Let me guess.
You're here to claim your promised land.
[man] Oh. don't pay Mr. Kind here
any mind.
[piano music stops]
I'm Eli James.
Ingalls. Dr. Tann said
you're the man to ask about a claim.
- You got family with you. Mr. Ingalls?
- My wife and daughters.
Hm.
No brothers. No sons.
See yourself over to the mill.
Sam Parker keeps a map of the claims.
Unofficial. but it'll send you
in the right direction.
Too bad there's nothing but scraps left.
- [Eli] There's plenty of land left.
- Plenty of wolves too. [howls]
- [men laugh]
- No need to act like fools.
- Welcome to Independence. Mr. Ingalls.
- Thank you.
[Laura] What do you want?
Peppermint? Gumdrops? Lemon drops?
[lighthearted music playing]
My ribbons floated away.
So?
[Mary] So. Ma wants us to be civilized.
Ribbons are civilized.
even out here in the middle of nowhere.
I'd rather have this.
Why? You barely know how to read.
I know how to read.
Take it back.
- Even though you're old enough.
- [grunts]
[Mary gasping]
[emotional music playing]
[Emily] Caleb.
they're waiting on those packages.
[music fades]
Will you all be staying
at the hotel tonight?
- [Caroline] We prefer to camp.
- Keep a close eye on your girls out there.
Wolves and men
are equally likely to steal them away.
Wolves are just wild creatures.
Keep your distance. Don't leave food out.
- And you'll be fine.
- Just a little friendly advice.
[Emily] Your bill.
Well. everything has to come a long way.
- I promise you the prices are fair.
- I'm sure they are.
- We could open you a line of credit?
- No. Thank you.
I will just have to leave off
the coffee and the bacon.
And the eggs.
And the sugar. And the ginger root.
So sorry for the trouble.
No. it's no trouble at all.
Do you wanna sing?
[cues horses]
[horses neighing]
[crickets chirping]
You can have my ribbons.
I don't want your ribbons.
You made me look stupid.
'Cause of that boy?
He didn't even say hi.
Besides. I thought you were
in love with dumb Charlie Stone.
Well. I'm never gonna see him again. am I?
You don't care that we left.
because you didn't have any friends.
I did.
[Mary huffs]
[sighs]
[Laura] Come on. Jack.
I know you'll find us.
[heartfelt music playing]
[sighs]
You take this.
I've got my axe and my knife.
We need another gun or another dog.
Put 'em on the list. I'll be back
before sunset with a place to call home.
- [cues horses]
- [horse nickers]
[Mary and Laura chuckling]
Ma. look!
[music fades]
She's an Indian doll. right?
What do you think her name is?
Can I keep her? Please?
You can sew up the rips
and use my ribbons.
Fine.
[insects chittering]
Why isn't Pa back?
Probably just stopped to hunt.
He didn't take the gun.
[tender music playing]
- [dog whining]
- [Laura gasps]
Jack?
[whining continues]
[rustling]
[tense music playing]
[growling]
[Laura gasps]
[tense music building]
- [gun fires]
- [wolf whimpering]
Get away from her!
[growls]
[Laura panting]
[Laura gasps]
[continues growling]
[breathing heavily]
Go!
[snarls]
[music fades]
[breathing shakily]
[melancholy music playing]
[birds chirping]
[footsteps approaching]
- Easy.
- [breathing heavily]
It's just me.
Where were you?
I lost track of time.
so Pet and I had to make camp.
But I found the most beautiful.
perfect piece of land.
Wait until you see it.
Hm?
- Should we have breakfast. be on our way?
- Make your own breakfast.
[breathes deeply]
Laura almost got eaten by a wolf.
[hopeful music playing]
[horse grunting]
[nickering]
[Mary and Laura laughing]
All right. so house goes here.
Garden. here.
Stable. there.
And a swing.
And next spring is wheat and corn.
as much as we can plant.
[Mary sniffles]
Well. what do you think?
My sister said I was a fool to leave
everything and everyone I ever knew
and follow you into the dark.
Here we are.
But here we are.
[fiddle music playing]
[Caroline laughs]
[Mary and Laura laughing]
[Caroline. Mary. Laura]
♪ Roll on. silver moon ♪
♪ Point the traveler's way ♪
♪ While the nightingale's song
Is in tune ♪
♪ I never. never more
With my true love will stray ♪
♪ By the soft silver beams. gentle moon ♪
♪ As the hart on the mountain
My lover was brave ♪
♪ So noble and manly… ♪
Laura Elizabeth Ingalls!
I'm gonna get you!
♪ And he loved me full dear ♪
♪ Oh. my Edwin. his equal was never ♪
[both grunting]
[laughs]
[song ends]
[grunts]
[exhales] I'm awake.
[exhales]
You sleep.
I'll leave Mary to look after you.
take Laura to help me.
[horse nickering. snorting]
[hopeful music playing]
[grunting]
Yeah. That's good. That's good. That's it.
[pants]
[Charles grunts]
Take a break. Half Pint.
[music fades]
[footsteps approaching]
Hello.
Oh.
Oh! She's yours?
[in Osage] She took my doll.
I doubt she took your doll.
You lost it. remember?
All the tears?
[in English] I found her
under a rock in the mud.
Ma sewed up the rips in her dress.
You can keep the button.
I'm Laura. by the way.
[Charles] Charles Ingalls.
We're building a house nearby.
just over the ridge.
Maybe we're neighbors.
[in Osage] Tell Laura thank you.
[in English] Thank you.
[clicks tongues]
[Laura] She was the same girl
I saw at the river.
And in town.
And the doll was hers.
Can we find out where they live?
Can we go visit?
- We don't need to know them.
- Why?
- We don't need to go looking for trouble.
- What kind of trouble?
Ma.
what kind of trouble?
Trouble with the Indians.
But they live here.
Why would there be trouble?
And why would we come
all the way to the prairie
if we didn't want to know them?
I've been through enough war.
I don't need another at my doorstep.
War? With the Indians?
No. of course not.
There were some hard times in the north.
This is Kansas.
The country's different now.
I'd like to know 'em too.
[woman in Osage] You should have
run them off.
This land still belongs to us.
I don't think there's any sense
in making enemies.
And now our daughter thinks
she's going to be friends with them.
[in English] Why shouldn't we?
You see? You see. cousin?
She's openhearted. that's all.
Just like her big sister was.
I didn't mean to upset her.
It's all right.
It's nice to remember.
Tell me about your trip. What sort
of land is the government offering?
Rocky. hilly. lots of scrub and oak.
I don't think most
of it's any good for farming.
but I saw lots of game. lots of water.
White Sun was… not impressed.
Maybe land like that
would keep the settlers out.
- Maybe they wouldn't be interested in it.
- Maybe.
[man] Would you stay or go
if it comes to that?
I'd hate to lose everything we built here.
[melancholy music playing]
[upbeat music playing]
Three. two. one.
[Caroline grunts]
[Mary gasps]
- Give it back. Give it.
- I thought they floated away.
I was wrong. They were in my pocket.
I need more water.
[grunts]
[grunts. sighs]
Need a rest?
I'm fine.
[grunts softly]
[Charles grunts]
[Caroline grunting]
- [screaming]
- [bone snaps]
[Charles] Caroline!
[screams. groans]
- [Charles grunts]
- [screams]
[grunts. pants]
- [groans] How bad is it?
- We need to stop the bleeding.
[breathing shakily]
- Mary. go get some clean cloth. Hurry.
- Okay.
[Caroline] It's okay. It's okay. I'm okay.
[winces]
[Caroline groans]
[groans]
I need to ride for Dr. Tann.
- No. Please don't go.
- The sooner I go. the sooner I'll be back.
- The girls will take care of you. right?
- [Mary] Yes.
Okay.
[Mary breathing shakily]
It's okay.
[exhales shakily]
Maybe Laura can tell us
one of her stories?
[melancholy music playing]
Once upon a time.
in the Big Woods.
Ma and Pa and Mary and Laura
rode through the sugar snow
to Grandma's house.
It was maple season.
and everyone was coming
for a moonlight dance in the barn.
Pa played his fiddle.
and Ma wore her green dress
with the tiny flowers.
and Grandma piled maple cakes so high
you could hardly see over the tops of--
I wish we'd never left.
I wish we had stayed
with Grandma and Grandpa
and Aunt Eliza and Uncle Peter.
and… and all my friends.
and the trees and owls.
and we'd still have Jack.
[Mary sobs quietly]
Staying wasn't that simple.
No one came to say goodbye.
Why didn't anyone come to say goodbye?
The important thing
is that we're together.
As long as we're together.
everything will be fine.
[Mary sobs]
[horses approaching]
Gotta change the bandage every day.
And you're gonna
have to stay off your feet.
Any more pains?
Any…
any bleeding?
A little.
but it stopped.
I haven't told Charles yet.
I see.
[Caroline] He said he was happy
with just the girls. but
all men want sons.
[scoffs]
After all this time. why now?
How am I supposed to have a baby out here?
What kinda luck is that?
I set the bones. closed the wound.
and gave her something for the pain.
But even if she weren't injured.
your wife can't be doing
this kind of work.
not with a… a baby coming.
If there aren't any friends or family.
you'll have to hire help.
I burned through
every penny making the trip.
I don't have any money
until the mortgage payments start coming.
I've seen entire families
freeze to death out here.
starve to death.
get taken by fever. wolves. madness.
It is a myth
that men can make it out here alone.
It's a pretty story. nothing more.
You find help
any way you can.
[tender music playing]
I've lost so many.
I just didn't want you
to be disappointed again.
I'll fix this.
I promise.
[hopeful music playing]
[knocking]
Hello?
Anyone home?
[music fades]
[man] Morning.
- Or is it. uh… is it later than morning?
- I'm sorry. I didn't mean to intrude.
No matter. Rare to get a visitor.
Except. uh… except for these strays.
- You like cats?
- [Charles] I'm more of a dog person.
We lost ours on the trail. unfortunately.
Charles Ingalls.
I don't think we were properly introduced.
John Edwards.
Dr. Tann sent me.
I'm building a house. He said
you might be willing to trade some work.
I've got my wife and daughters with me.
Two girls.
They're just about the same age as yours.
by the looks of it.
[purring]
Where do you come from. Mr. Edwards?
Tennessee.
[sniffles] Thing is. I haven't. uh…
I haven't quite decided if I'll stay. so…
Well. I promise
we'll do fast work together.
Build you a house so snug and warm
that when you send for your family.
it'll be a very happy home.
Hm.
What are their names?
Your girls?
My wife's Caroline.
[tense music playing]
My daughters are Mary and Laura.
I didn't mean to offend.
[horse neighing]
A happy home. you say. hm?
I should be on my way.
[man] Edwards.
Came to pay you back
for the nails I borrowed.
Some of our persimmons for your trouble.
[grunting]
[both grunt]
- [Charles yells]
- [Mr. Edwards grunts]
[Charles panting]
[music fades]
[snoring]
[cat meowing]
He'll sleep it off.
He always does. [sighs]
I don't know where you come from.
Mr. Ingalls.
But more often than not.
this country calls a certain kind of man.
Some are desperate and out of luck.
Some have been scraped raw
by war and poverty.
Some are just destructive
and cruel and hard by nature.
Step carefully.
I'll do that.
William Mitchell.
Thank you. Mr. Mitchell.
[horse snorts. nickers]
Waiting for me?
[voice breaking] I didn't hold him
tight enough.
I let go.
And he jumped into the water.
[inhaling shakily]
I should have held on tighter.
It wasn't your fault.
Jack jumped in to save me.
I should've known better
than to cross there.
I should have known better
about a lot of things.
Ma said he's not coming back.
Hope is everything.
It's the only thing.
Don't give up on him.
Don't give up on us.
I won't.
[emotional music playing]
[crickets chirping]
[footsteps approaching]
Mmm.
Did you find someone to trade work with?
Not just yet.
[music fades]
If you wanna go back.
we can start off
as soon as you feel strong enough.
We don't have money for the trip.
We need supplies. new horses.
- And we don't have a house to go back to.
- Your brother could take us in.
[Caroline] There's no going back. Charles.
Not after everything that happened.
Not for a long time anyway.
and certainly not as beggars.
[sighs]
Do you remember the night we met?
- Harvest dance at the Anderson farm.
- [Caroline] We danced all night.
While we were dancing. it started to snow.
so you carried me home on your back.
You wore a blue dress.
You were so wild and strange.
All the girls were madly in love with you.
I didn't notice.
[chuckles softly]
You could've chosen any of 'em…
but you chose me.
And I knew in that moment.
I would follow you anywhere.
And look where it got you.
This place scares me.
I won't pretend it doesn't.
But it was my choice to come.
I said yes because I believe in you.
Your light.
Your dreams. Your imagination.
I want our children to have
a better life than the one we had.
[inhales deeply]
And what if I was wrong?
What if it isn't better?
And what if
this is where we finally become
who we were meant to be?
What if this is where
your son is finally born? [laughs]
How will we ever know till we try?
Sell the books.
my father's pocket watch.
my silver combs.
anything else we have to spare.
The fiddle.
Sell it all.
[sobs]
[mournful fiddle music playing]
[sniffling]
Maybe they didn't know
that we were leaving.
Maybe they're all waiting
for us to come back.
[music fades]
[barking in the distance]
[barking continues]
[upbeat music playing]
[panting]
[Laura] Jack?
[barking]
- Hey! Jack! Jack! Jack!
- [whimpering]
You found us.
Jack.
[music fades]
Thought he might be yours.
Pa says you lost a dog up on the trail.
Are you Mary or are you Laura?
Jack doesn't like strangers.
[Mr. Edwards] We had a little talk
on the way up here.
Missed his family. he said.
[Charles] Laura!
Pa!
Take Jack. Go back to the tent.
Stay inside till I tell you
you can all come back. You understand?
[Jack barking]
[Laura] Mary!
[Jack barks]
[Mary gasps] Jack!
[heartwarming music playing]
- [Mary laughs]
- [whimpering]
How did you know he would find us?
I didn't know.
I just hoped.
[Jack panting. whimpering]
I wanna apologize for yesterday.
Ashamed of my poor manners.
[music fades]
Thank you. but there's no need.
You can be on your way.
Thing is. Mr. Ingalls.
I'd like to help you build your house.
Those girls are gonna need a roof
over their heads before the snows come.
Or the wolves.
What kinda fool would I be to trust you?
Yeah.
See. I. uh… I had a Laura too.
Laura and Abigail.
And they'd have loved it here.
I mean. the birds.
flowers.
sky.
Have you ever seen such a sky?
Let me make things right.
I can't pay. I can only trade.
Yeah. so he said.
Start first thing tomorrow morning.
First yours. then mine.
So you decided to stay?
Well. if a man with so much to lose
is willing to risk it. why shouldn't I?
- What do you mean? What risk?
- We're all just speculating on this land.
Anything could happen.
That's not true. It's open for settlement.
I read it in the newspapers.
There's flyers everywhere in Wisconsin.
Free land.
No. not this land.
This is Osage land.
Everything here belongs to them.
[pensive music playing]
But the men in town said
they'd bring a land office--
They're speculating.
hoping that the government's gonna step in
and force the Osages out.
Now. the Osage are out there now.
They're huntin'. but they will be back.
And then you'll see there's nothin' free
about this land at all.
Hey. no risk. no reward. right?
I mean. isn't that why we're all here?
To make a new America?
Whatever that might be.
I'll see you in the mornin'.
bright and early.
[hopeful music playing]
[Laura] Go. Jack!
[Jack barking]
[Mary and Laura laughing]
Did you find someone
to help build the house?
Yes.
Then we'll be safe from all the wolves.
Safe and sound.
And we'll get to stay
with the grass and sky.
This will be our new forever.
Come on.
[music continues]
[music builds]
[music intensifies]
[music ends]
[closing theme music playing]